README.md, before:

Le Chi's Trading Bot
=====================

This is a crypto trading bot that aims to replicate a production level trading system. There are 2 sections to this system.
- Live Trading 
- Back Testing

Setup
-----
- Install dependencies in a virtualenv (Python 3.12):
  ```
  python3 -m venv venv
  source venv/bin/activate
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

LIVE TRADING COMPONENTS:
-----
Live trading consists of the trading service, quoting service and the strategy engine. 

Trading Service
---------
- File: `trading/trade.py`
- Sample order test to binance test vision api.
- Before running:

Go to https://testnet.binance.vision/
Login
Copy API keys to /trading/.env

- Run:
  ```
  python3 quoting/quote.py
  ```

Quoting Service
---------
- File: `quoting/quote.py`
- Broadcasts BTC/USDT bid/ask/last over `tcp://127.0.0.1:5000`.
- Run:
  ```
  python3 quoting/quote.py
  ```

Strategy: Dual EMA
------------------
- File: `strategies/strategy_dual_ema.py`
- Listens to bid/ask quotes, maintains two EMAs (e.g. 9/25), and sends trade signals to the trading daemon via ZMQ.
- Edit the `SYMBOL`, `EMA_FAST`, and `EMA_SLOW` parameters at the top of the script as needed.

How it Works:
  - Receives bid/ask/symbol binary quotes on `tcp://127.0.0.1:5000`.
  - Computes two EMAs (fast and slow) to detect crossovers.
  - When the fast EMA crosses above the slow EMA, sends a BUY order to the trading daemon; when it crosses below, sends a SELL order.
  - Sends JSON order messages via ZMQ PUSH to `tcp://127.0.0.1:5001`.

To run:
  ```
  python3 strategies/strategy_dual_ema.py
  ```


BACKTESTING:
-----
To effectively backtest the strategy, we must use the same strategy component during backtest to better understand its behaviour. We use backtesting/ folder components. We use data_prep.py to send old market information in data just like how quoting.py would. We will use backtester_core to collect the trades that are executed, similar to trade.py. 

Run strategy_XYZ.py with argument --backtest to ensure that quoting and trading ports are modified accordingly.

Backtest Data:
-----
Backtest data is obtained by using Backtest Manager on VS Code Marketplace by woung717. With that, I am able to download data from various exchanges (e.g. crypto.com, coinext, coinbase, etc) instead of paying for API access from databento, CoinGecko, Kraken.

https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=woung717.backtest-manager


ADDITIONAL TOOLS BUILT:
-----

Subscriber
----------
- File: `tools/subscriber.py`
- Connects to the publisher and prints formatted quotes.
- Run in a second terminal while the publisher is active:
  ```
  python3 quoting/subscriber.py
  ```

Notes
-----
- Multicast UDP is *not* enabled in the default pynng builds; this setup relies on local TCP pub/sub.
- Adjust symbol, host, or port by editing the constants at the top of each script.

Commit message:

modify readme with database info

README.md, after:

Le Chi's Trading Bot
=====================

This is a crypto trading bot that aims to replicate a production level trading system. There are 2 sections to this system.
- Live Trading 
- Back Testing

Setup
-----
- Install dependencies in a virtualenv (Python 3.12):
  ```
  python3 -m venv venv
  source venv/bin/activate
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```

LIVE TRADING COMPONENTS:
-----
Live trading consists of the trading service, quoting service and the strategy engine. 

Trading Service
---------
- File: `trading/trade.py`
- Sample order test to binance test vision api.
- Before running:

Go to https://testnet.binance.vision/
Login
Copy API keys to /trading/.env

- Run:
  ```
  python3 quoting/quote.py
  ```

Quoting Service
---------
- File: `quoting/quote.py`
- Broadcasts BTC/USDT bid/ask/last over `tcp://127.0.0.1:5000`.
- Run:
  ```
  python3 quoting/quote.py
  ```

Strategy: Dual EMA
------------------
- File: `strategies/strategy_dual_ema.py`
- Listens to bid/ask quotes, maintains two EMAs (e.g. 9/25), and sends trade signals to the trading daemon via ZMQ.
- Edit the `SYMBOL`, `EMA_FAST`, and `EMA_SLOW` parameters at the top of the script as needed.

How it Works:
  - Receives bid/ask/symbol binary quotes on `tcp://127.0.0.1:5000`.
  - Computes two EMAs (fast and slow) to detect crossovers.
  - When the fast EMA crosses above the slow EMA, sends a BUY order to the trading daemon; when it crosses below, sends a SELL order.
  - Sends JSON order messages via ZMQ PUSH to `tcp://127.0.0.1:5001`.

To run:
  ```
  python3 strategies/strategy_dual_ema.py
  ```


BACKTESTING:
-----
To effectively backtest the strategy, we must use the same strategy component during backtest to better understand its behaviour. We use backtesting/ folder components. We use data_prep.py to send old market information in data just like how quoting.py would. We will use backtester_core to collect the trades that are executed, similar to trade.py. 

Run strategy_XYZ.py with argument --backtest to ensure that quoting and trading ports are modified accordingly.

Backtest Data:
-----
Backtest data is obtained by using Backtest Manager on VS Code Marketplace by woung717. With that, I am able to download data from various exchanges (e.g. crypto.com, coinext, coinbase, etc) instead of paying for API access from databento, CoinGecko, Kraken.

https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=woung717.backtest-manager


DATABASE:
-----
I am using PG 18 with Timescale DB to store trade positions from trade.py.



ADDITIONAL TOOLS BUILT:
-----

Subscriber
----------
- File: `tools/subscriber.py`
- Connects to the publisher and prints formatted quotes.
- Run in a second terminal while the publisher is active:
  ```
  python3 quoting/subscriber.py
  ```

Notes
-----
- Multicast UDP is *not* enabled in the default pynng builds; this setup relies on local TCP pub/sub.
- Adjust symbol, host, or port by editing the constants at the top of each script.
